TABLE OF CONTENTS

I.	INTRODUCTION	3

II.	BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE PROJECT	3

III.	BUDGET AVAILABLE	3

IV.	REQUIREMENTS	3

1.	General objective	3

2.	Means of action	3

3.	Implementation period	3

4.	Target stakeholders	3

5.	Budgetary requirements	4

6.	Further to the general objective, preference will be given to:	4

7.	The following types of action will not be considered:	4

8.	Funding conditions:	4

9.	Reporting requirements:	4

V.	HOW TO APPLY?	5

1.	Documents to be submitted:	5

2.	Questions	5

3.	Deadline for submission	5

4.	Change, alteration and modification of the application file	6

VI.	EVALUATION AND SELECTION PROCEDURE	6

1.	Exclusion criteria:	6

2.	Eligibility criteria:	7

3.	Award criteria	7

VII.	NOTIFICATION OF THE DECISION AND SIGNATURE OF GRANT AGREEMENTS	7

VIII.	INDICATIVE TIMETABLE	7

Appendices:

Appendix I - Application Form 

Appendix II - Provisional budget (Template)

Appendix III - Template Grant Agreement (for information only)

INTRODUCTION

This call for proposals is launched in the framework of the Council of Europe Project “Strengthening the social dimension in Ukraine” implemented by the Council of Europe until 31 December 2026 in the framework of the Council of Europe Action Plan for Ukraine “Resiliency, Recovery and Reconstruction” for 2023-2026.

It aims to co-fund national/local initiatives aimed at supporting actions of the non-governmental organisations in the sphere of social and labour rights in Ukraine. The Grantees will remain responsible for administration of the funds which have been granted.

Proposed initiatives shall aim to produce an added value to the Council of Europe efforts in this domain in compliance with the provisions of the European Social Charter and the case law of the European Committee of Social Rights.

BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE PROJECT

The project “Strengthening the social dimension in Ukraine” (hereinafter – the project) is being implemented in Ukraine within the framework of the Council of Europe Action Plan for Ukraine “Resilience, recovery, reconstruction”. It aims to ensure that general public and people from vulnerable groups, including war-affected population in Ukraine, benefit from targeted social protection and support. To achieve this, a combination of targeted actions is envisaged, with the following expected results:

National authorities change their policy and legislative framework regarding social, labour rights, and social dialogue in Ukraine in line with European standards, including European Social Charter and case law of the European Committee of Social Rights.

National and local authorities effectively implement the social and labour policies and efficiently operate in times of war and post-war context, as well as legal professionals, social partners and civil society activists effectively apply the European Social Charter standards in their activity.

The protection of social human rights has become especially imminent with the beginning of the Russia’s full-scale war of aggression against Ukraine, given the forced displacement of millions of people (both internally and abroad), the loss of homes, property, employment and means of livelihood by hundreds of thousands of people and many more. The project is aimed at further supporting Ukrainian authorities in addressing current challenges posed by the on-going war in Ukraine in the area of social and labour rights, implementing the reforms already embarked in above mentioned areas, in line with the requirements of the European Social Charter and relevant European standards, and ensuring that the post-war recovery phase is as short and effective as possible.

The project partners include the Ministry of Social Policy, Family and Unity of Ukraine, Ministry of Economy, Environment and Agriculture of Ukraine, the Parliament Committee on Social policy and Protection of Veterans’ Rights, Ombudsperson’s Office in Ukraine, Office of the President of Ukraine (Advisor-Commisioner of the President of Ukraine on Barrier-Free Issues), National Mediation and Conciliation Service, local authorities working to implement social and labour policies, social partners, civil society and international organisations.

BUDGET AVAILABLE

The indicative available budget under this call for proposals is 60 000.00 EUR (sixty thousand euros). The Council of Europe intends to award three grants of a maximum amount of 20 000.00 EUR (twenty thousand euros) each.

Subject to availability of funds and extension of the project initial duration, the Council of Europe reserves the right not to award all available funds, and/or to redistribute the available funds in a different manner depending on the proposed initiatives received and on the outcome of the call for proposals.

REQUIREMENTS

General objective

The grants will fund initiatives/actions designed to support the civil society organisations in Ukraine working in the sphere of social and labour rights pr